So, our first example was to do with airlines,
scheduling, network and using a graph.
Now, let us look at a different problem.
So, suppose we have a photo copy shop, campus
Xerox inside the university campus.
The deadline for projects is approaching and
a bunch of student want their projects copied
urgently.
So, they all go and submit their reports to
the photo copying shop, and say we want so
many copies made within such a time.
So, now the question for the shop is how best
to schedule these jobs.
Now, there are many different ways in which
this problem can be phrased.
So, let us look at one of them.
So, suppose these students have submitted
their jobs and this shop campus Xerox is competing
against some rivals.
So, it is offering a special deal.
So, it says that it will give each customer
a promised delivery time and if does not meet
the schedule like a pizza shop, it will give
a discount.
So, I will promise your report within 6 hours
and if you do not get within 6 hours, you
pay less.
Now, in this time frame there are of course
some bigger jobs and some smaller jobs.
So, some photo copying jobs will be faster
to finish, some will take longer, but at the
same time they all have to run on the same
machines that the Xerox shop has.
So, now you can reorder things.
So, you could take something which came later
and put it earlier on the machine and hope
to finish it within its deadline.
Therefore, not to have to give discount and
take something which is going to take longer
and postpone it saying, anyway you are not
going to meet the dead line and give up the
discount on that job, right.
So, the job, the problem the Xerox shop has
is how to do this schedule, right.
So, there is always at the background what
is called brute force approach.
You can say now I have to allocate these photo
copying jobs to the machines in some order.
So, let me try every possible order and choose
the one which gives me the best return.
The problem with this is that it will take
a very large amount of time to do this because
number of possibilities is exponential.
Even if you have just 30 requests pending,
it could take several hours to find an optimal
schedule, and in those several hours you might
as well have gone ahead and done some work,
so that you got the jobs done and perhaps
not optimally at least got some money for
it.
So, here is where we come to the idea of decomposition,
right.
So, can we solve this problem by reducing
it to a simpler problem.
So, supposing we fix one job to run first.
If we fix this job to run first, we are left
with the remaining jobs, now the remaining
jobs are smaller in number.
So, if there was a way to optimally solve
for n minus 1 jobs, then we can pick each
of the first jobs, each of the jobs to be
the first job and for each of them determine
how much time it takes efficiently if we can
to do the remaining n minus 1 and choose the
best one.
So, this would give us a kind of recursive
solution, pick one and solve the rest and
then add the time for this.
Another option is to just come up with a strategy.
Looking at all the jobs which are yet to be
done, we find some criterion by which we choose
one to do next.
Now, we could have different criteria for
instance we could choose the one to do next
which has the least number of pages that will
take the shortest time to process, or we could
take the one to do next which is closest to
its dead line that is one for which we are
most likely to miss finishing it in time and
having to give a discount.
So, for each of these, we could have a strategy
which would tell us which job to do next without
looking at all the possibilities of doing
the other jobs, but then we have to justify
that the strategy that we have chosen is actually
optimal.
Is it better to choose shortest processing
time, is it better to choose earliest deadline
or is there yet another criterion, and how
do these criteria justify the choice.
Will I always get the best possible return
on my machines by choosing this strategy.
Now, as we saw with the airline network problem,
the basic problem has many different variations
which are possible.
For instance, if we assume that the shop has
many photo copiers, it is reasonable to assume
that some are new and some are old.
So, ones that are new one may work faster
than the ones that are old.
Therefore, the time that it takes to finish
a job depends on which machine we put the
job on.
So, if we have this additional complication,
does the strategy that we chose for the type
that all machines are uniform, still hold,
or do we have to look at a different strategy.
The other factor is of course that the cost
of doing something varies across machines.
So, if we use a machine; we use some resources,
we use some ink, use paper, we use electricity
and this cost may vary from one machine to
another.
So, now the question becomes related to the
first question, the previous question which
is that now if I split my job across machines,
it might not only take more or less time,
it also may cost the shop more or less.
So, the actual revenue that the shop realizes
maybe more or less depending on which machine
it chooses.
The other thing that we might want to keep
in mind is that a machine cannot run indefinitely
without having to be stopped for some time
for maybe some maintenance, for loading paper,
for something.
So, we cannot realistically assume that every
machine is continuously available.
Now, under all these situations, is there
still a valid greedy strategy or do we have
to do something else.
So, you see the general idea.
The general idea is that there is a basic
problem with some constraints which you want
to solve, but that problem can be amplified
or made more realistic by adding several new
features.
And each time you add a new feature, you have
to see whether the solution that you have
for the simpler problem still works or whether
the new feature demands a radically new approach
and if so how you should get that.